By now the incriminating footage will not have only been discovered and released but uploaded in myriad ways for the public forum and courthouse that is the internet, blogged about and butchered by a thousand writers and expounded upon and examined by experts professional and amateur, online and offline. Soon all aspects of my life will be laid bare before the world. Anyone with whom I even shook hands will become a witness whose words will fuel multiple tales, multiple careers, maybe even a movie or two. I’ll be the talk of the town, nay the world. My name will be uttered with fear and perhaps even envy.
 
I heard them break through the door—most likely well-meaning intrepid agents of some government, maybe my own, come to take me into protective custody (or whatever they call it these days). Of course, all that effort will all be for naught. They will never catch me. They can never catch me. They’ll have better luck finding Jimmy Hoffa drinking with DB Cooper at a bar run by the esteemed Judge Crater and owned by Ambrose Bierce. But I digress.
 
Before I am forced to flee my home and perhaps spend the remainder of my days in lonely exile, forever alone in the crowd, I am going to write this little chronicle and do my best to diffuse it online and offline.  If I am going to become legend, detached from mortal comprehension and, worse, mortal sympathy, I might as well have a say in how that legend is crafted. Furthermore, this little history will shed some light on some unfortunate events, which, to my everlasting regret, might have caused much pain to numerous individuals, who deserve to be no longer kept in the dark (even those who I feel deserved it).
 
I lament that I have never been much of a writer (a USB drive worth of half-started novels and an anthology’s worth of unfinished short stories will stand as a legion of silent witnesses to my narrative skill), and I have always found beginning to write to be rather hard. If all else falls, in media res, I suppose. Thus, I’ll start by explaining my role in a recent episode that has already engendered the most curiosity and which will undoubtedly serve to showcase the full extent of my power and its concomitant burden. I am, of course, referring to the final flight of Oceanic Air 729 and the miraculous survival of all passengers and crew (well most of them) despite the total destruction of the plane.
 
The plane had been in a downward spiral toward the unyielding sea. The nose of the plane was a few hundred meters from breaching the citadel of Poseidon and carrying its passengers and crew to the realm of Hades. Black smoke billowed out from the starboard engine, serving as an exclamation point to this modern take on the tale of Icarus. The passengers and crew were on the edge of oblivion, their arms raised high, as if they were melodramatically throwing themselves at the feet of the Grim Reaper and beseeching him for a reprieve that would never come. Most like me had lost consciousness due to the speed at which the plane had been making its unplanned descent.
 
However, although I, like my fellow passengers, faded into black at some point during the plane’s unanticipated sudden descent toward the hard embrace of the unforgiving water, I regained consciousness a few seconds before the potentially fatal moment—last minute self-preservation perhaps. My body ached from where the seatbelt had been restraining my falling body. I was lucky if I escaped unscathed with only a few bruises and nothing worse. I could still move despite my dolorous condition and walk about the plane.

For five days, the plane had been frozen in its descent. For five days, the people on board remained a half-minute from certain death. For five days, I was alone in the company of people stuck in another time frame. For five days, I had been holding back eternity.
 
For you see, I have the ability to stop time for all but myself. Or better put, I can exist in another time, my own separate time, different from yours.
 
For five days, I had been wandering (or stumbling rather given the plane’s orientation relative to the ocean) about the cabin and taking stock of the situation. I had helped myself to the victuals and viands available on the plane, even some of their more luxurious items usually out of my price range (I hope I do not receive a bill from Oceanic Air for this). After I had recovered from the initial shock of realizing how close I had come to departing for that undiscovered country that awaits us all and become accustomed to ghastly sight around me (the copious amounts of fine cheeses and chocolates pilfered from first class were quite effective anodynes), I found myself baffled. Before I would had to have halted time consciously, but there I was, still alive, safe in my own separate time frame.
 
Of course, you will ask me how does it feel to separate yourself from time or to stop time? How do you know? Is it like flexing a muscle or grinding your teeth? Is it exhausting? Explaining how it feels and how I know that I’ve cut myself off from regular time puts me in a rather difficult epistemological situation. It can only be explained through feeble approximations, analogies and metaphors, just as you or I could never explain to any degree of a satisfaction to a blind man the way the color blue looks or to explain to a lifelong vegetarian the taste of a juicy cut of sirloin. The best way I could conceive of describing how it feels to stop time is that it’s like putting an object on the shelf or taking off one’s shoes. I know my shoes are off and they are off until I put them on again.
 
I do not feel any physical strain from halting time. However, time is relative, doubly so when one can halt time. It can be incredibly disorienting to remain divorced from normal time. I need to iterate and reiterate how much time has passed for me or else it becomes incredibly disorienting. Of course, exacerbating my timekeeping problem is that having been a student for many years has habituated me to irregular hours and “long” days. It is fitting that living in my own personal time is marked by something incredibly personal, human. When there is no day or night and since clocks generally do not work for me, I keep track of when I fall asleep, when I can no longer hold my eyes open. This is still a problematic way of measuring time because the lack of external stimuli indicating the passage of time can be incredibly disorienting (I suppose it’s similar to those who live in countries that have days of the year where it’s all sunny or all dark). For instance, I had spent the equivalent of four days outside of normal time but thought only two days had passed). Thus, I generally try to avoid remaining outside of normal time for too long I fear it would drive me mad. Worse, if years passed for me but not for others, how could I explain the discrepancy in aging?  Or what would happen if I fell into a coma or got myself in a jam? Would the world forever be stopped, frozen forever at the moment of my demise?
 
Furthermore, although it has never happened and although I dread if it should ever occur (especially so in the days in which I shall describe below), I’ve yet to unconsciously slip in and out of my own separate time when I sleep (early when I first discovered that I had this ability, I had run a few informal experiments and subsequently discovered this)
 
So I can only say that five sleep cycles had passed since I awoke aboard the doomed plane. It could have been a week, given the trauma I had suffered. For five “days”, I had pondered what to do. What could I do? I had no idea where we were. I had only been half-paying attention to the flight information in between browsing entertainment options. I recalled that we were somewhere above the Pacific, maybe near California or one of the West Coast states.
 
Furthermore, now with some semblance of a sober mind and even become settled amid the souls in limbo (I had even made a suitably comfortable makeshift bed in first class after displacing a world famous chef from his perch, which I might add took some effort given his girth and weight), I realized that vital supplies were limited. I could search the luggage compartment and surely on such a large plane there would be some food and snacks brought from home for somebody’s Aunt so-and-so in the states. However, I’m not an aircraft designer and wouldn’t know how to access it. It’s hard saving the day, let alone your own bacon, when you know so little.
 
Again, if I remained in the plane, I would certainly run out food and liquid (oddly enough in my own time I can “drink” liquid in close contact with me, though it feels decidedly strange, unnatural for reasons I still cannot fathom). I certainly did not want to re-enter into normal time and die in a plane crash nor spend my remaining days languishing in a plane (or worse, if driven mad by hunger and temporal disorientation, resorting to cannibalism).
 
Gazing outside the window I knew we were near enough to the water that perhaps I could safely make the descent and bring myself to safety. Of course, if I got out of the plane and brought myself to the relative safety of the Pacific Ocean and then rejoined normal time, I would be alone and be waiting for some time for a rescue, or rather a salvage effort. Misery loves company. Plus, among the passengers, there might be someone with halfway decent survival training. I’m certain I would have either drowned or frozen to death amid the indifferent waves. 

So it was on the sixth day, lacking anything better to do, that I elected to save everyone or nearly everyone. Of course, I should add that it was at that point, it was the most time I had spent cut off from normal time. 

Before then, the most time I had spent was, I confess, when I had elected to take approximately 72 hours to finish a 12 hour take-home exam (the university can void my degree if they so wish and if they can get some in physics or philosophy department to agree whether taking advantage of the relativity of timeframes is cheating or just using one’s natural abilities).  However, every hour I spent outside of normal time, I could not suppress a growing sense of unease, as if I were committing a mortal sin against space and time, not against God but on some personal level. I felt as if everything were shaded differently. For instance, I could pick up the violin, I could play a note or two but it would just sound off. Food tasted the same but amiss. I felt as if I were the one instrument in an orchestra of thousands not playing my part; the symphony could still be heard and understood but there would be one man not contributing, not playing his part. 

After that episode of academic indiscretion or rather the manipulation of time for the sake thereof, I never dared to stay more than a day outside of normal time, let alone a few hours. They say that fear gives men wings, but it’s not quite true. Fear also clips wings. It keeps men grounded and safe from taking unnecessary risks and from getting anything worthwhile done. Fear (e.g. fear of being caught if my power ceased to exist, fear of being stuck alone, forever cut off from normal time, fear of causing a horrific accident) I would like to believe has kept me from transgressing certain moral boundaries (a fact which I’m certain members of the opposite sex will be relieved to hear)


By the sixth day, I must have become a bit bonkers. 

First, there was the problem of opening the door and then finding a way out of the plane in the first place. 

The emergency exit door on the starboard side was surprisingly easy to open and filled me with some confidence. “So far so good”, I thought. I later discovered, on some random online trivia site, that I had lucked out. The emergency doors usually do not open in flight due to differences in air pressure. I never liked thinking too hard about the physics because 1) I was always terrible with physics 2) it fed a debilitating sense of unease. 

Gazing down from the open door, I had trouble estimating the drop below. Below I could see the dark waters below, frozen in movement, a three-dimension still life waiting to awaken. On a lark, I added to the pollution of the world’s ocean by dropping a few soda cans out of the plane. 

Oddly enough, the cans bounced back, as if hitting ice. I could not see if there was fragmentation of the frozen water, but I knew now that I could descend to the water, I would be able to walk across the waves far enough to safety. I had never walked upon water before, not even daring to do so in a bathtub or a shallow fountain. Again, I was always afraid of meeting some accident or again losing my abilities at a potentially embarrassing moment. 

I began rifling through the luggage available in the overhead compartment in the hopes of something that would assist my descent (I confess that my wallet after the flight was a bit heavier than I would care to admit; being a poor graduate student can sometimes have an effect on one’s honesty). I considered making a rope out of the blankets the airline had offered earlier. 

How far did I have to move everyone so they would survive? It was a rather large plane, and I guessed there must have been a few hundred people (353 to be exact, not counting crew, as I found out some time later after nearly breaking my back lugging some middle age schoolmarm off the plane). The impact of the plane crashing into the water would be substantial. I would have to go at least a mile from the plane to be safe and to assuage my extreme risk aversion (as a rule I never make bets unless the odds are 75% or better). 

Could I feasibly move everyone? I already had enough difficulty moving the rather corpulent gourmet two seats over and I already was short of breath. Not helping was that his body was contorted in a rather odd position. I never was particularly strong. At best, I could lift fifty pounds with my arms not buckling too noticeably. Granted, I had learned on my own that old secret of martial artists, using the whole body to mask or compensate for the weakness of its parts.  

Once you’ve started down the path of Don Quixote, once you’ve donned the rusty armor and gotten upon the bedraggled horse you pass off as a mighty steed, you might as well sally forth and charge that windmill. 

I attempted to imagine relations between passengers. I invented elaborate backstories or inferred what I could about their station form their attire (and later from their carry-on luggage). I guessed that from their weight and bearing most of them were (thank goodness, for, had they all been average Americans I would have broken my back dragging them out of the plane and then to a safe impact point potentially far away). 

Some of the lives I imagined for my charges (what I came to call them) were outright preposterous, the product of an extremely bored and an increasingly temporally disturbed mind. The chap in business casual, probably some hotshot executive in disguise in row 36, seat A was in love with the stern, slender college student in row 38 in Berkeley hoodie. They had corresponded via notes passed in between trips to the lavatory, notes scrawled on legal paper in ballpoint pen, as if they both were high school students from the early 90s. The dour old man in row 23 in the fading tracksuit was a former secret agent returned from one last off-the-books mission in the mysterious Orient to track down the wayward daughter of an old colleague (the mission had ended bittersweetly but at least served as a fitting coda to a career only glorious in hindsight). The rather heavy chef (who became the bane of my existence due to his considerable girth) from first class whose place I had usurped only gone on this flight to complete a quixotic quest to eat every species of snail in Southeast Asia, even the poisonous ones. 

By the thirteenth or fourteenth day, I realized that I could not save everyone. Some were already dead. An infant tossed from his mother’s hands had impacted against the roof of the passenger cabin. I hesitated at one point as to whether I should carry the unfortunate deceased with me, so that the parents who survived would at least have something to bury or let them remain in their graves. 

This being post 9-11, I had no way of getting into the cockpit. I am sure I could have saved the pilots somehow. I’m sure that after the publication of this account there will be some expert who will point out that I missed a lever or two. In fact, I realized that I could have accessed the cargo hold of the plane which would have made my eventual escape plan considerably easier. 


The new normal can be someone else’s very definition of a vacation in Hell. 

As to how I was to get done, I could think of no better solution as I, alas, had never learned to tie very good knots (I ought to have taken that class in topology when I was younger). 

The solution was rather infantile but it was the best that I could devise given my limited knowledge. Again, as each day passed, I became more and more unhinged. Food tastes funny outside of normal time. I based my plan on the assumption that everyone had brought with them at least one piece of luggage, each piece of luggage having

Then, I could use the remaining seats if I fell short. 
I had long forsaken being beholden to the laws of personal property, especially under the given circumstances. 
The first bag I opened was nothing special, just clothes. 

And so in the end I lived a month in between two moments. 



 
